Create and execute the first python script:
You can write and execute a simple python script from the terminal without creating any python file. If the script is large, then it requires writing and saves the script in any python file by using any editor. You can use any text editor or any code editor like sublime, Visual Studio Code, or any IDE software developed for python only like PyCharm or Spyder to write the script. The extension of the python file is .py. The python version 3.8 and the spyder3 IDE of python are used in this article to write the python script. You have to install spyder IDE in your system to use it.

Working with Boolean types:
The different uses of Boolean types are shown in the following script. The first output will print the value of val1 that contains the Boolean value, true. All positive are negative numbers return true as Boolean value and only zero returns false as a Boolean value. So, the second and third outputs will print true for positive and negative numbers. The fourth output will print false for 0, and the fifth output will print false because the comparison operator returns false

Use of If else statement:
The following script shows the use of a conditional statement in python. The declaration of the if-else statement in python is a little bit different than other languages. No curly brackets are required to define the if-else block in python like other languages, but the indentation block must be used properly other the script will show an error. Here, a very simple if-else statement is used in the script that will check the value of the number variable is more than or equal to 70or not. A colon(:) is used after the ‘if’ and ‘else’ block to define the starting of the block.

Use of AND and OR operators:
The following script shows the uses of AND and OR operators in the conditional statement. AND operator returns true when the two conditions return true, and OR operator returns true when any condition of two conditions returns true. Two floating-point numbers will be taken as MCQ and theory marks. Both AND and OR operators are used in the ‘if’ statement. According to the condition, if the MCQ marks are more than equal to 40 and theory marks is more than or equal to 30 then the ‘if’ statement will return true or if the total of MCQ and theory is more than or equal to 70 then the ‘if’ statement will also return true.

switch case statement:
Python does not support a switch-case statement like other standard programming languages, but this type of statement can be implemented in python by using a custom function. employee_details() function is created in the following script to work like the switch-case statement. The function contains one parameter and a dictionary named switcher. The value of the function parameter is checked with each index of the dictionary. If any match found, then the corresponding value of the index will be returned from the function; otherwise, the second parameter value of the switcher.get() method will be returned.
